										CMPT-732
										Big Data Project Proposal
										Team Name: CS
										Group Members: Chhavi Verma(301371249),Shray Khanna(301367221)
										SERVER LOG ANALYSIS

-> The data generated by the servers each day is really big. The hits/requests to the server from the users can increase upto a petabyte each day and browsers sometimes fail to respond to the requests. This might be due to several reasons.

-> Analyzing these logs for fault prediction can help us to increase the efficiency of a server and decrease the fault rate. Analyzing this can also help to increase the management of the servers for busy hours.

-> The analysis on this data can:
		
		# Perform error prediction of the server by checking HTTP status (reply code) for each day. This can give the hours on which there are maximum issues or if the size becomes huge the website may not operate properly. Predicting the failure rate of the server according to the previous data can help us improve the server for future use by managing the requests properly.

		# Get a score for the requests which are maximum in a week to show the popularity of the website. These websites generate the most traffic and hence there is a need to optimize the hits on these websites. Prediction on future hits according to the current data to show the increase in traffic for these hits.

		# Depicting efficiency of the server using the fault prediction through graphs give us a better visualization of the working of the server.

		# Checking if there is DOS/DDOS attack on a website by checking continous hits on a particular website occuring within an hour/day. This can be done in 2 ways-:
						>>> Checking if there is a continous occurence of a single hostname in an hour
						>>> Checking if there is a continous occurence of requests by multiple IP addresses in an hour.
			These attacks are responsible for alot of loss to the companies and sometimes can even bring down the entire network(e.g the one which brought down several social media websites for several hours in North America). These losses affect the economy as well. 
			Analysis on these logs can help us to reduce the attack by properly facing the issue through the server end.

-> The datasets which we'll be using are NASA logs, GVU's WWW survey logs and server logs from Kaggle.